# netfilter-wiki

> https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Netfilter

Netfilter is a framework provided by Linux that allows various networking-related operations to be implemented 
in the form of customized handlers. Netfilter offers various functions and operations for packet filtering, 
network address translation, and port translation, which provide the functionality required 
for directing packets through a network, as well as for providing ability to prohibit packets 
from reaching sensitive locations within a computer network.  

Netfilter represents a set of hooks inside the Linux kernel, allowing specific kernel modules to register callback functions 
with the kernel's networking stack. Those functions, usually applied to the traffic in the form of filtering 
and modification rules, are called for every packet that traverses the respective hook within the networking stack.[3]  

## Userspace utility programs

- iptables(8)  
- ip6tables(8)  
- ebtables(8)  
- arptables(8)  
- ipset(8)  
- nftables(8)  

## Userspace libraries

The Netfilter also provides a set of libraries having libnetfilter as a prefix of their names, 
that can be used to perform different tasks from the userspace. These libraries are released 
under the GNU GPL version 2. Specifically, they are the following:  

- libnetfilter_queue  
allows to perform userspace packet queueing in conjunction with iptables; based on libnfnetlink

- libnetfilter_conntrack  
allows manipulation of connection tracking entries from the userspace; based on libnfnetlink

- libnetfilter_log  
allows collection of log messages generated by iptables; based on libnfnetlink

- libnl-3-netfilter  
allows operations on queues, connection tracking and logs; part of the libnl project[10]

- libiptc  
allows changes to be performed to the iptables firewall rulesets; it is not based on any netlink library, 
and its API is internally used by the iptables utilities.  

- libipset  
allows operations on IP sets; based on libmnl.

## iptables

The kernel modules named ip_tables, ip6_tables, arp_tables (the underscore is part of the name), 
and ebtables are some of the significant parts of the Netfilter hook system. 
They provide a table-based system for defining firewall rules that can filter or transform packets.   

## kernel module

- iptable_raw  
- iptable_mangle  
- iptable_nat  
- iptable_filter  
- security_filter  

## nftables

nftables is intended to replace Netfilter, as the new general-purpose in-kernel packet classification engine. 
nft, as the new userspace utility, is intended to replace iptables, ip6tables, arptables and ebtables.  

